## Project Ideas

If you are a project maintainer and consider mentoring during the GSoC 2024 cycle, please, submit your ideas below using the template.

[Google summer of code timeline](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline).

You can find the project ideas from previous year [here](./2023.md).

> **NOTE:** Please note that GSoC is a program known for its strict deadlines. In addition to responding to your mentee on time, you will be required to submit evaluations on time. Failures to meet the deadlines might affect CNCF's future participation in GSoC.

---

### Template

```
#### CNCF Project Name

##### Project Title

- Description:
- Expected Outcome:
- Recommended Skills:
- Expected project size: # one of small (~90 hour projects), medium (~175 hour projects) and large (~350 hour projects)
- Mentor(s): #For GSoC, it is **required** to have at least 2 mentors with 1 being a primary mentor.
  - Jane Doe (@jane-github, jane@email.address) - primary
  - John Doe (@john-github, john@email.address)
- Upstream Issue (URL):
```

---

## Ideas

#### KubeArmor

##### Rancher Plugin Integration

- Description: The goal is to create an extension for Rancher, a Kubernetes management platform, which will enable interaction with KubeArmor. The extension will have the capability to install KubeArmor, allow the users to easily see the state and manage KubeArmor policies, default posture, protected containers, and provide monitoring of workload behavior through alerts and telemetry.
- Expected Outcome: Rancher plugin address the following points:
  - Install KubeArmor
  - Manage KubeArmor Security Policy Resources
  - Manage ClusterWide and Namespace Specific KubeArmor Configuration and Security Postures (Policy Decision and Visibility)
  - Handle Recommendation of Policies based on `karmor recommend`
  - Integrate KubeArmor Visibility Dashboards based on Grafana with Rancher Preset Grafana Dashboards
- Recommended Skills: Rancher, Grafana stack, Javascript
- Expected project size: Large
- Mentor(s):
  - Barun Acharya (@daemon1024, barun1024@gmail.com) - primary
  - Prashant Mishra (@primalpimmy, prashant20.pm@gmail.com)
  - Rudraksh Pareek (@DelusionalOptimist, rudrakshpareek3601@gmail.com )
  - Anurag Kumar (@kranurag7, kranurag7@linux.com)
- Upstream Issue: kubearmor/KubeArmor#992

#### Keptn

##### GitHub issue self-assignment bot

- Description: The goal is to create a self-service issue assignment bot for GitHub contributors who are not yet part of the organization but would like to work on issues marked for external handling. The bot should be able to check if the user is part of the organization, examine if the pre-conditions for self-assignment are met (configurable labels or rules about number of issues already assigned/PRs opened), and assign the issue. Additionally, the bot should be able to track the state of the issue by adding/removing specific labels. The bot should be part of the CI and executed as an action on an issue change.
- Expected Outcome:
  - Implement GitHub bot in TypeScript/Golang
  - Bot does not require an external hosting
  - Bot is able to assign GitHub issues to contributors following the pre-defined set of rules
  - Bot is able to track the status of GitHub issues with labels
  - Introduce documentation about how to use and configure the bot
- Recommended Skills: GitHub API, TypeScript/Golang, Webhooks
- Expected project size: Large
- Mentor(s):
  - Ondrej Dubaj (@odubajDT, ondrej.dubaj@dynatrace.com) - primary
  - Florian Bacher (@bacherfl, florian.bacher@dynatrace.com)
- Upstream Issue (URL): https://github.com/keptn/lifecycle-toolkit/issues/2823
